[EDU-3154] feat: secure menu > digital certificates (#445)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/secure-journey/transport-layer-security/digital-certificates.mdx

---

> title: How to acquire a Digital Certificate and register to Azion

Author: ```suggestion
title: How to acquire and register a Digital Certificate  with Azion
```

> title: How to acquire and register a Digital Certificate  with Azion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: How to acquire and register a Digital Certificate with Azion
```

If you don't own a certificate, you can issue a request through Azion and submit it to a certificate authority. This guide will describe how you can generate a **Certificate Singing Request (CSR)** through Azion. 

A CSR is an encrypted request to a Certificate Authority (CA) for issuance of a digital certificate. You can provide Azion with your business details to automatically generate the CSR for you. After it's created, you can submit it to any CA of your choosing. They'll review your request and, if approved, issue an authenticated certificate. You then use the certificate provided by the CA to register it with Azion and associate it with a domain.

---

## Step 1. Create a Certificate Singing Request (CSR)

### Via RTM

1. Access [Real-Time Manager (RTM)](/en/documentation/products/guides/how-to-access-rtm/) > **Digital Certificates**.
2. Click the **Add certificate** button.
3. In the dropdown, select **Edge Certificate**.
4. Give your CSR an easy-to-remember name.
5. Select the option **Generate CSR and private key with Azion**.
6. Fill in the requested information.

>   - **Common Name**: the apex domain address that will be bound to the certificate. For example: `domain.org`.
>   - **Country/Region**: the two-letter country code of where your organization is based. For example: `BR` for Brazil.
>   - **State/Province**: the state or province where your organization is based. For example: `Distrito Federal`.
>   - **City/Locality**: the city or county where your organization is based. For example: `Brasília`.
>   - **Organization**: your organization's name. For example: `Company Name Inc`.
>   - **Organization Unit**: the department or body responsible for managing the certificate. For example: `IT Department`.
>   - **Email**: the email of the body responsible for managing the certificate. For example: `it@companyinc.org`.
>   - **Private Key Type**: the type of private key generated. Azion currently only works with RSA 2048 encryption.
>   - **Subject Alternative Names (SAN)**: list of other names or records to be associated with the certificate as SANs. Separate each SAN by a new line. For example: `domain.net`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Common Name**: the apex domain address that will be bound to the certificate. Example: `domain.org`.
  - **Country/Region**: the two-letter country code of where your organization is based. Example: `BR` for Brazil.
  - **State/Province**: the state or province where your organization is based. Example: `Distrito Federal`.
  - **City/Locality**: the city or county where your organization is based. Example: `Brasília`.
  - **Organization**: your organization's name. Example: `Company Name Inc`.
  - **Organization Unit**: the department or body responsible for managing the certificate. Example: `IT Department`.
  - **Email**: the email of the body responsible for managing the certificate. Example: `it@companyinc.org`.
  - **Private Key Type**: the type of private key generated. Azion currently only works with *RSA 2048 encryption*.
  - **Subject Alternative Names (SAN)**: list of other names or records to be associated with the certificate as SANs. Separate each SAN by a new line. Example: `domain.net`.
```

:::

7. Click the **Save** button.
8. Copy the value in the **Certificate Singing Request (CSR)** field.

### Via API

1. Run the following `POST` request in your terminal, replacing `[TOKEN VALUE]` with your [personal token](/en/documentation/products/guides/personal-tokens/) and the placeholders in the body with the desired values: 

```bash
curl --location 'https://api.azionapi.net/digital_certificates/csr' \
--header 'Accept: application/json; version=3' \
--header 'Authorization: Token {{[TOKEN VALUE]}}' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data-raw '{
    "name": "New CSR",
    "common_name": "domain.net",
    "country": "US",
    "state": "Washington",
    "locality": "Seattle",
    "organization": "Example",
    "organization_unity": "IT",
    "email": "itdepartment@example.com",
    "private_key_type": "rsa_2048",
    "sans": [
        "www.domain.net",
        "mail.domain.net",
        "support.domain.net"
    ]
}'
```

| Key | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `name` | Name of the CSR |

> | `common_name` | Accepts a string that should contain the apex domain address that will be bound to the certificate |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `common_name` | Accepts a string that should contain the apex domain address that'll be bound to the certificate |
```

> | `country` | Accepts a two-character string that should contain the country code of where your organization is based. For example: `BR` for Brazil. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `country` | Accepts a two-character string that should contain the country code of where your organization is based. For example: `BR` for Brazil |
```

> | `state` | Accepts a string that should contain the state or province where your organization is based |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `state` | Accepts a string that should contain the state or province where your organization is based. Example: `Distrito Federal` |
```

> | `locality` | Accepts a string that should contain the city or county where your organization is based |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `locality` | Accepts a string that should contain the city or county where your organization is based. Example: `Brasília` |
```

> | `organization` | Accepts a string that should contain your organization's name |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `organization` | Accepts a string that should contain your organization's name. Example: `Company Name Inc` |
```

> | `organization unit` | Accepts a string that should contain the department or body responsible for managing the certificate |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `organization unit` | Accepts a string that should contain the department or body responsible for managing the certificate. Example: `IT Department` |
```

> | `email` | Accepts a string that should contain the email of the body responsible for managing the certificate. For example: `"it@companyinc.org"` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `email` | Accepts a string that should contain the email of the body responsible for managing the certificate. Example: `"it@companyinc.org"` |
```

> | `country` | Accepts a two-character string that should contain the country code of where your organization is based. Example: `BR` for Brazil |
> | `state` | Accepts a string that should contain the state or province where your organization is based. Example: `Distrito Federal` |
> | `locality` | Accepts a string that should contain the city or county where your organization is based. Example: `Brasília` |
> | `organization` | Accepts a string that should contain your organization's name. Example: `Company Name Inc` |
> | `organization unit` | Accepts a string that should contain the department or body responsible for managing the certificate. Example: `IT Department` |
> | `email` | Accepts a string that should contain the email of the body responsible for managing the certificate. Example: `it@companyinc.org` |

Author: ```suggestion
| `country` | Accepts a two-character string that should contain the country code of where your organization is based |
| `state` | Accepts a string that should contain the state or province where your organization is based |
| `locality` | Accepts a string that should contain the city or county where your organization is based |
| `organization` | Accepts a string that should contain your organization's name |
| `organization unit` | Accepts a string that should contain the department or body responsible for managing the certificate |
| `email` | Accepts a string that should contain the email of the body responsible for managing the certificate |
```

> | `private_key_type` | Accepts a string that should contain the type of private key generated. Values different from `rsa_2048` are not accepted |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `private_key_type` | Accepts a string that should contain the type of private key generated. Values different from `rsa_2048` aren't accepted |
```

> | `private_key_type` | Accepts a string that should contain the type of private key generated. Values different from `rsa_2048` aren't accepted |

Reviewer 2: será que deveria ser "Accepts only `rsa_2048` value"?

> | `private_key_type` | Accepts a string that should contain the type of private key generated. Values different from `rsa_2048` aren't accepted |

Author: ```suggestion
| `private_key_type` | Enum that should contain the type of private key generated. Accepts only the value `rsa_2048` |
```

> | `sans` | Accepts an array. List of other names or records to be associated with the certificate as SANs. Not required. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `sans` | Accepts an array. List of other names or records to be associated with the certificate as SANs. *Not required* |
```

> | `sans` | Accepts an array. List of other names or records to be associated with the certificate as SANs. *Not required* |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `sans` | Accepts an array. List of other names or records to be associated with the certificate as SANs. *Optional* |
```

        "certificate_content": null
    }
}
```

| Key | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `id` | Digital certificate ID |

> | `issuer` | Stores the information on the CA that will issue the certificate |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `issuer` | Stores the information on the CA that'll issue the certificate |
```

| `subject_name` | Array that lists the records associated with the certificate and confirmed by the CA |
| `validity` | Expiration date of the certificate |

> | `status` | Enum that indicates the status of the Certificate. Returns `"Pending"` when the certificate hasn't yet been generated by the CA. Returns `"Active"` when the certificate has been registered with Azion. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `status` | Enum that indicates the status of the certificate. Returns `"Pending"` when the certificate hasn't yet been generated by the CA. Returns `"Active"` when the certificate has been registered with Azion. |
```

> | `status` | Enum that indicates the status of the certificate. Returns `"Pending"` when the certificate hasn't yet been generated by the CA. Returns `"Active"` when the certificate has been registered with Azion |

Author: ```suggestion
| `status` | Enum that indicates the status of the certificate. Returns `Pending` when the certificate hasn't yet been generated by the CA. Returns `Active` when the certificate has been registered with Azion |
```

> | `certificate_type` | Enum that indicates the type of the certificate. CSR certificates are assigned the value `"edge_certificates"`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `certificate_type` | Enum that indicates the type of the certificate. CSR certificates are assigned the value `"edge_certificates"` |
```

> | `certificate_type` | Enum that indicates the type of the certificate. CSR certificates are assigned the value `"edge_certificates"` |

Author: ```suggestion
| `certificate_type` | Enum that indicates the type of the certificate. CSR certificates are assigned the value `edge_certificates` |
```

> | `managed` | Boolean that flags whether the certificate is managed by Azion's certificate tool. Not applicable to CSR certificates. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `managed` | Boolean that flags whether the certificate is managed by Azion's certificate tool. *Not applicable to CSR certificates* |
```

> | `azion_information` | String that updates the status of certificates managed by Azion's certificate tool. Not applicable to CSR certificates. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `azion_information` | String that updates the status of certificates managed by Azion's certificate tool. *Not applicable to CSR certificates* |
```

> | `csr` | String that holds the certificate signing request to be submitted to a CA for issuance. Includes the escape sequence `\n` that may require conversion to a line feed upon submission to a CA. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `csr` | String that holds the certificate signing request to be submitted to a CA for issuance. Includes the escape sequence `\n` that may require conversion to a line feed upon submission to a CA |
```

| `certificate_content` | Key that should be updated via `PATCH` with the certificate generated by the CA |

3. Copy and store the CSR value in the `csr` property.

---

## Step 2. Submit the CSR to a Certificate Authority

> Once you've generated your CSR with Azion, the next step is to submit it to a CA. This can usually be done online. You'll need to begin by choosing a CA that suits the needs and standards of your organization. Some popular choices are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've generated your CSR with Azion, the next step is to submit it to a Certificate Authority (CA). This can usually be done online. You'll need to begin by choosing a CA that suits the needs and standards of your organization. Some popular choices are:
```
